Blog - Gamergate

Title: I don't want to live on Planet Gamergate
Summary:

* I have no time for people perpetrating this shit


* Not taking a position perpetrates the status quo.
And to be clear, the status quo sucks. It sucks in many, many areas. Patriarchy sucks. Capitalism sucks. Neoliberalism sucks. Refusing to examine what you're doing and why sucks.

Here in New Zealand, there's a little imaginary place called Planet Key, where our (rich, white, conservative, powerful) Prime Minister once suggested he'd like to be. It's a place with a lot of golf courses, apparently.

His ideal world is built for him, the man at the top of the heap, and it's somewhere I'd hope never to visit.

Frequently, the response to neoliberal economics solely addresses the lower end [redistribution]. It's pretty important to my politics to address the top, and not only economically. I don't have any great answers about the mechanisms, but I do believe the top end ought to be lower. Say, CEOs only earning 10 times the salary of their lowest-paid worker.

It applies to non-economic power to. Those at the top (like me, straight, male, cis, pakeha, able-bodied, and so on) have a disproportionate amount of power over and against those who aren't those things. The privilege it affords me manifests in a ton of ways, in no way that can be ethically defended.

(Writers for On the Left have been posting some great stuff along these lines that have helped articulate the connective tissue of my politics. Thanks!)

So I have an obligation to work against that disparity. I need to deconstruct and reject it where I can. I need to use it for others rather than myself (hence writing this post, on a topic that has had no direct negative impact on me).

To do nothing, and stay quiet? It's not a neutral position, because when you have privilege it drags you along. Rather like science, it works whether you believe in it or not. Like gravity, it pulls and you have to exert force to counteract it.

And I don't want to live on Planet Gamergate, where the Gamer is king, and he (yeah, he) can exercise his power to play this small subset of 'real' games. It's also a world where he has the power to abuse and harrass, to send death and rape threats. He has the power to lie and obfuscate about his actions and intentions, and not be called out on it.

That sounds a lot like the world we live in now. See what I mean about the status quo?

* This isn't new
Seems like I'm mountaining this molehill? As [person] and [person] have shown, Gamergate's a new label on an ongoing heap of shittiness. Samantha [person], Mattie Brice, Laurie Penny and others were all harassed out of games before the hashtag was coined. Anita Sarkeesian's been dealing with this same shit from the same people for years now.

And it's pervasive throughout tech. Model View Culture has been doing a great job illustrating the depth and breadth of ways power is embedded, concentrated, and abused all through the industry. Never mind the appalling state of the world at large.

Gamergate's just one expression of unreflective, unchained privilege lashing out against any - _any_ - pushback. They're running a playbook far older than the hashtag, one that's been 'tested' on less visible groups, including Black women [link].

* Critique makes things better

In Gamergate's favour, I've learned about Zoe Quinn - I've learned how tough, how hilarious she is. I've also gained a ton more respect for Anita Sarkeesian and Danielle Riendeau, among others. It's reinforced my determination not to let things slide, but to take a position.

So fuck right off, gamergaters. I hope one day you'll see how those you've abused have made the medium you claim to enjoy so much better.

* Things to link
Feminist Frequency
Zoe Quinn being amazing
Storifys
Chris Kluwe
Isometric
On the Left
Polygon